During this coursework, my responsibility was to do the project enhancements. This meant extending the application which involved supporting Version 2 QR codes and automating between version 1 and 2, evaluating all eight masking patterns using penalty rules, and adding optional features like step-by-step visualisation and QR code customisation. This required me to research how QR codes work through thonky.com. This led me to understand how Version 2 QR codes work, as well as matrix size scaling and alignment pattern positioning, and managing the error correction. One of the biggest challenges I faced was ensuring the masking logic integrated with the QR code and did not interfere with data placement within the QR code. Moreover, I also created a debugging pipeline that output immediate PNGs for each construction stage, which helped out a lot with transparency and testing. I gained experience with matrix manipulation, bistream encoding and further designing user-friendly interfaces which shows a step by step process in designing a QR code in an educational way. If given more time, I would add further features, such as allowing the user to change the QR size, as well as the filters for accessibility and customization. Overall, I improved the application significantly by enhancing the functionality and usability of the application, and this project developed my skills in algorithm design, web development and problem solving under complexity.
NOTE: See Version 2 (Project enhancements have been made there from the original). Effort: 100%
